Title: (Re)Figuring Citation:
Metaphors, Performance, and
Transformative Use / Daniel Anderson
iamdan@unc.edu @iamdan.
A web page with a video appears.
The cursor hovers the play button.
Title on screen: First Metaphor:
Private Property.
The cursor clicks play.
The video shows a message:
This video contains content from
Warner Bros. Entertainment,
who has blocked it on copyright grounds.
A web page shows a forum posting
on YouTube's copyright algorithm.
A passage is highlighted: I'm wondering
how the algorithm correctly identifies
the song as infringing copyright.
A student video fills the screen
with a fish surfacing on a lake.
The video shows text on screen
and fishing imagery.
Fishing boots in the video shift to a
male figure walking away in a meadow.
The video shows text: Two songs.
A cursor types in a note: Writers commonly
focused on . . . between 3 and 13
[criteria] when accounting for their
citing decisions. . . . Different authors
had different priorities, and one of the
distinctions . . . was the authors'
identification with the "researcher"
or "teacher" role.
The video shows text: A shape
already inside a shape.
A scan from the MLA style guide appears
showing questions to ask when citing:
Who, What, How, When, Where, Why.
The scan is overlaid with imagery of a
fisherman walking through a meadow.
A translucent rectangle appears; beneath
it appear a lake surface and text:
a rise on a small lake.
Fishing imagery appears in the background.
a cursor types in the rectangle:
Citation is a private and subjective
process, and motivations/functions cannot
straightforwardly be read off by the
textual analyst, however specialized
his/her knowledge.
A title appears:
Second Metaphor: Favorites.
A web browser appears showing videos
from a YouTube search.
The curosor clicks a video thumbnail
and images fill the screen: a waterfall,
trees, grasses, ruins, moose.
The screen fills with a video editor
showing a student project.
The video shows typing: I had A LOT of fun
editing my clips!
A rectangle appears with typing: I gave
nods to some of my favorite movies
through some of the more subtle clips. The
"Sufi poet" is actually Tom Hanks
in the film "Cloud Atlas," which is my
favorite book!
The video editor shows
the student project.
A rectangle appears with typing: The
"garden of dust" is actually a shot
of Jakku from "Star Wars:
The Force Awakens!"
The video editor shows
the student project.
A rectangle appears with typing: But one
of the most fun clips to select was
this one. I felt as though the
"everything" needed to be EPIC
So I searched YouTube for
"COOL SPACE EXPLOSIONS"
In the YouTube search field, the cursor
types: COOL SPACE EXPLOSIONS.
Search results fill the screen
showing space explosions.
The screen fades to white.
A web browser fills the screen.
The browser shows imagery of a basketball
and net and text: March Madness.
The cursor loads a new tab in the browser.
An image of young woman appears.
The screen fades to white.
A video editor fills the screen showing
a student project.
The editor shows aerial views
of grasses, trees, and rolling hills.
In the student project, text appears:
Look down upon Captivity --
The playhead in the editor moves along the
timeline as the footage plays.
In the student project, text appears:
And laugh -- No more have I --
In the aerial footage, the camera rotates
and sunlight flares across the landscape.
In the student project, text appears:
A Poem by Emily Dickinson.
Edited by Emily Dickinson Shepherd.
The screen fades to white, then
a cursor types: Digital craft criticism
imagines what choices made at the
material level contribute not only to the
interpretation of the text that requires
reading, watching and listening, but,
more important, the limits and horizons
that particular material conditions
in digital environments
make possible for imaginative texts.
The screen fades to white.
A scan from a book appears.
The screen slowly zooms in on text
from the scan: The source being documented
forms a part of. . . .
The larger whole can be thought of
as a container. . . .
The screen continues to zoom in on text:
The container is crucial.
The screen continues
to zoom in on text.
Title appears on screen:
Third Metaphor: Listening.
A web browser appear showing video
thumbnails.
The cursor loads a video titled
Make Your Own Lanyard.
A rectangle appears with typing:
Advocating a context-is-the-new-content
approach to the understanding of creative
writing, Goldsmith proposes what he calls
uncreative writing: "focused on . . .
'manipulation' and 'management'
of the heaps of already existent
and ever-increasing language."
The screen fills with a browser showing
a video on YouTube.
Beneath the video appears a title: Brian
Eno - The BIg Ship - DOTS extended edit.
A web browser appears showing a Google
search being typed.
Search results fill the screen.
The cursor loads a poem
from the results.
A title appears on screen:
Fourth Metaphor: Mixing.
A cursor begins to type: When composers
use multiple modes as tools for thinking
rather than just to visually illustrate
a completed script, they actually
generate new meaning. Creation of a
digital video then can become much more
than an act
of "translation" or transcription. . . .
Compositing and new recursivity . . . are
also critical cognitive experiences. . . .
A video editor appears showing
a student project.
Cloud imagery fills the screen.
The playhead moves in the editor as
images appear.
The imagery in the editor shows
underwater and aerial footage.
A new video editor fills the screen
showing a student project.
The editor show an image of a
water dropletoverlaid with text:
Now I am a lake.
The image is put in motion, and
the droplet splashes on the lake surface
The editor shows text:
A woman bends over me.
the editor shows a woman's face
overlaid on the lake surface
The cursor hovers over the woman's eye.
The image is put in motion: the droplet
splashes and the woman's eye opens.
A new video editor fills the screen
showing a student project.
In the editor, the cursor moves the
playhead in the timeline.
The cursor presses play.
The editor shows a blend of underwater
and cloud imagery.
Title on screen:
Last Metaphor: Resistance.
A cursor types: Only the humanities and
social science articles . . . contained
reporting verbs characterizing the source
as unreliable (e.g., fail, overlook,
exaggerate, or ignore). This is
attributed to the "more disputational
style of argument" found
in the soft knowledge fields.
The screen fades to white, then a cursor
types: The current model of digital
video composing as a sequential series
of temporally-discrete steps is predicated
on the logic of old media and, thus, may
no longer be sufficient to account for
the new media composing processes
that emerge with new media interfaces.
A video editor fills the screen showing
a student project.
In the editor, the cursor presses play and
the playhead moves over the timeline.
Imagery of a bird hovering above grass
appears in the video editor.
The bird slowly flaps its wings
and hovers
In the editor, the student project
shows text:
Because they liked me "still" --
They put me in the Closet --
In the editor the project shows a callout:
Matt Wood Cinematographer,
"Bird in Flight,"
http://vimeo.com/69825194.
The cursor scrolls through the timeline
in the video editor.
The screen fades to a white background and
a cursor types:
Craft criticism . . . foregrounds textual
production while backgrounding textual
interpretation. . . . Craft criticism uses
methods of production to examine the ways
imaginative literature operates—and how
it can help its authors and audience
members engage critically with the
cultural environment that surrounds them.
The screen fills with a video showing
an animated sea otter.
The otter wears an eye patch
and a pirate hat.
The otter appears in front of a laptop.
A callout slides on screen titled:
Fair Use.
Rapid typing in the callout reproduces
the spoken text.
The otter pushes the callout
partially off screen.
The cursor types the spoken text.
The screen fills with a bird flying
in slow motion over grass.
The bird slowly flaps its wings
The video with the
slow flying bird shows text:
As when a little Girl.
Because they liked me "still" --
They put me in the Closet --
The bird flaps slowly, hovering
over dry grass.
The video on screen cuts to a
grey sky from below.
The video shows text:
Still! Could themself have peeped --
Starlings swarm against the sky.
The video shows text:
And seen my Brain -- go round
Flocks of starlings swarm
against the sky.
The video shows text:
They might as wise have lodged a Bird
For Treason -- in the Pound --
Works cited scroll on screen